The Joe Rogan experience. You want your name to be called one time?
And that's what the announcement says. Referee in this fight is such and such.
You don't want any complaints other than that,
because we noticed a lifetime opportunity for the spiders.
We don't want to do anything negatively to affect them. So, yeah.
That's a good thing. Well,
it's such a difficult job because in impulse you have an impulse, like you,
you don't know when to stop. Like, is it now? Is he okay?
Is he going to be okay?
Like sometimes fights get stopped early and it is the worst feeling when a guy
is kind of rocked,
but then someone stops the fight and then the guy complains and crowds like,
boom. And you're like. Yeah.
It's, you know, it's weird. Cause our philosophy and you know,
I primarily worked with two of the commissioners,
Nevada state athletic commission in California to the top commissions in the
world.
You don't want to fight to go too long to risk long-term injury for the fighter.
So there's a philosophy of maybe stopping a fight,
one punch too early versus one punch too late.
Your goal is to stop it right on time.
But it takes a lot of hard work to get to that point,
depending upon the history of the fighter, you know,
their ability to come back and you know,
you gotta make that subjective determination right away.
When is the time to stop that fight. But man,
it's the worst feeling in the world. If you think you get to that point,
you let it go too long. Or if you mistakenly stop it too early. Ah, God,
it's a hard feeling. And trust me.
It's such a difficult job.
It's so much harder than anything other than fighting.
Like everybody else's joke. Judging is kind of hard, but they kind of,
they can hide like you on TV. That's right. You know, you're right there.
If it happens. And if it's you, that makes a bad call,
like all the hate comes your way.
You know, you got to kind of stay away from, you know,
some of the social media criticism.
Cause you've got someone in there that may not understand the detailed,
you know, specifics of how we officiate and what we do.
And you're going to have critics not tell everybody, going into a fight.
Fans are going to hate you.
A love you half of the fans account for fighter in the red corner,
half account for fighters in the blue corner. And depending upon the call,
you make, it may be the referee's fault. It may be the judge's fault,
but your goal is to go in there and be as objective as possible.
And fighter safety is always number one.
Yeah. And some guys just want to see people get beaten almost to death. They,
they, they don't want to be stopped.
Even if the guy is covering up and in a turtle, they think they should,
they shouldn't stop the fight.
If you stop a fight while somebody is standing up,
you're just going to get crucified for that. So.
Well there was a call like with max Holloway and Calvin cater,
there was a lot of people thought you could have stopped that fight standing up.
But herb was like, not quite. And I think it was the right call.
He gave them, but it was touch and go.
You could tell he was looking at Calvin very carefully.
And there's that, you know,
you obviously go to there's no one better than John McCarthy and herb Dean,
right? Doing this. They've been doing this for so long.
That's the goal of what they're looking at.
And then it comes down to intelligent defense.
That's not just holding your hands up,
but that needs to translate into doing something offensive.
And if you could tell that a guy's listening to your verbal commands and he's
doing something to fight back.
As long as he's showing good cognitive skills and showing something off
offensive where he's not looking at long-term injury,
there's a possibility of him letting that FICO. But man,
if it started to stem on a 10,
seven round where the fighters does get destroyed and they're going to get hurt
now it's our responsibility to step in with fighter safety.
Yeah. It's, it's a V like I said, it's a very difficult job, but you do it well,
you do it. Excellent.
One of the best catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on
Spotify, watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the Jerry on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.